Dovetail 12 (#1547)
carpentries/carpentries.org: _posts/2022/12/2022-12-07-dovetail-12.md

---
layout: page
authors: ["Zhian N. Kamvar"]
teaser: "The beta stage is extending deadlines"
title: "The Dovetail #12: Updates from The Carpentries Workbench"
date: 2022-12-07
time: "09:00:00"
tags: ["Lesson Infrastructure", "Community", "Carpentries Workbench", "Beta", "Dovetail"]
---

This is the twelfth post in [a series that we are calling "The Dovetail",

> about the transition to The Carpentries Workbench](https://carpentries.org/posts-by-tags/#blog-tag-dovetail).

Author: ```suggestion
about the transition to The Carpentries Workbench](https://carpentries.org/posts-by-tags/#blog-tag-dovetail) (our new lesson infrastructure).
```

> about the transition to The Carpentries Workbench](https://carpentries.org/posts-by-tags/#blog-tag-dovetail).

Author: addressed

In this series, we aim to keep members of The Carpentries community abreast of
the current news about [the Workbench](https://carpentries.github.io/workbench). 

If you are interested in participating in discussions around The Carpentries

> Workbench, head over to our GitHub Discussions forum: <https://github.com/carpentries/workbench/discussions>

Author: ```suggestion
Workbench, or if you have questions, head over to our GitHub Discussions forum: <https://github.com/carpentries/workbench/discussions>
```

<span style='font-size: large;'>If you have used the workbench and would like to provide feedback, please

> <b><a href='https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/KRBl4IZM'>tell us about your experience</a>.</b></span> 

Reviewer: Add, where appropriate, where someone should go if they have questions. Email you directly or post to the discussion forum?

Author: addressed

---

## IT'S GONNA BE MAY

In our [previous blog post]({{ site.url }}/blog/2022/11/dovetail-11/), we
outlined the goals of the beta phase, acknowledged the very real situation of
limited volunteer time, and announced that we will convert all of our lessons in
mid-April 2023. Since it was published, personal considerations have required
me to reconsider the timeline and extend it. Thus, **we will convert all of our
lessons to use The Carpentries Workbench in May 2023.** Moreover, all of the
[lessons in the beta
phase](https://carpentries.github.io/workbench/beta-phase.html) will undergo
their transitions to the [beta stage](https://carpentries.github.io/workbench/beta-phase.html#beta)

> _synchronously_ in February 2023. In April 2023, these lessons will 

Reviewer: Are these links going to the definitions of these terms? It might be helpful to write this post with two things in mind: (1) someone may be reading about The Workbench for the first time; (2) many will not have time to read the information that is being linked to and may not be familiar with those previous posts. I would include everything someone needs to know in the article with the links only supporting details for anyone interested. Perhaps this is repeated content like you currently have that goes at the top and is included in every post? Anything we can communicate via a graphic? Is the video still relevant or should we update it? Anyone following the communications will know to skip over that opening segment. I am happy to work through this with you tomorrow if you would like

Author: I have answers to these questions, but I think these are bigger questions that are beyond the scope of this blog post (which is already delayed by a week and a day).

My priority right now is to seed communications about the change I'm going to bring as the year draws to a close and people tune out.

Reviewer: Sounds good! Thanks, @zkamvar

[finalise their conversion](https://carpentries.github.io/workbench/beta-phase.html#pre-release)
and the default website will use The Workbench. 

## Why we are extending the deadline

Ultimately, we are doing this because it is better to do something right than
to do something quickly. The first shift of the beta phase placed it right in 

> the middle of a time of year when people are not always going to be available.

Reviewer: REplace with "members of the community may not be readily available"

Author: ```suggestion
the middle of a time of year when members of the community may not be readily available.
```

> This impacted the time for maintainers to explore the lessons and it initial

Author: ```suggestion
This impacted the time for Maintainers to explore the lessons and it initial
```

design of the beta phase impacted the time and resources for organisation. This
next shift in the beta phase will mean the maintainers will have more time to
explore and also talk with each other about the experiences they are having with

> the workbench. It is my hope that, through this process, champions of The

Reviewer: Be consistent with capitalization. Do we want to use "The Workbench" or "the workbench?

> the workbench. It is my hope that, through this process, champions of The

Author: Haphazard capitalisation? My halcyon days on AIM are starting to bleed through

```suggestion
The Workbench. It is my hope that, through this process, champions of The
```

> Workbench will arise provide feedback and fuel for its improvement.

Author: ```suggestion
Workbench will arise to provide feedback and fuel for its improvement.
```

### Time to explore the new lesson format

The transition to use The Workbench will make the lives of instructors,
maintainers, contributors, and core team staff easier when it comes to 
teaching and maintaining lessons. While instructors will see a new format to the

> website, the maintainers will see the repositories undergo a massive change.

Reviewer: should we be explicit here? "lesson webpages"?

Author: yup. addressed

> The transition to use The Workbench will make the lives of instructors,
> maintainers, contributors, and core team staff easier when it comes to 
> teaching and maintaining lessons. While instructors will see a new format to the
> website, the maintainers will see the repositories undergo a massive change.

Author: ```suggestion
The transition to use The Workbench will make the lives of Instructors,
Maintainers, contributors, and Core Team staff easier when it comes to 
teaching and maintaining lessons. While Instructors will see a new format to the
lesson webpages, the Maintainers will see the repositories undergo a massive change
```

> lesson webpages, the Maintainers will see the repositories undergo a massive change

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
lesson webpages, the Maintainers will see the repositories undergo a massive change.
```

> Thus, the first part of the beta phase is a way for the maintainers to get a
> better sense of how the lesson repository differs in its new format without the
> risk of irreverisbly modifying a lesson.

Author: ```suggestion
Thus, the first part of the beta phase is a way for the Maintainers to get a
better sense of how the lesson repository differs in its new format without the
risk of irreversibly modifying a lesson.
```

### Efficiency for time and resources

> When I [annouced the Beta Phase]({{ site.url }}/blog/2022/05/workbench-beta/),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When I [announced the beta phase]({{ site.url }}/blog/2022/05/workbench-beta/),
```

I had intended for the Beta Phase to start in the middle of July and run

> through until the end of October, giving us time to transition all of the

Author: ```suggestion
through the end of October, giving us time to transition all of the
```

> I had intended for the Beta Phase to start in the middle of July and run

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I had intended for it to start in the middle of July and run
```

lessons by December. The lessons were staggered on a weekly schedule to account
for the time it would take for me to provide an [automated transition script](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-transition#readme)
for each lesson in the beta phase. While I had taken into account [Hofstadter's law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hofstadter%27s_law)
in planning the Beta Phase, situations beyond my control appeared and I had to
delay the beta phase until October. 

What I had not taken into account was the fact that I would be vastly increasing
the amount of communication work required for such a project. If every lesson
required communications before, at the beginning of, and after each stage of the

> beta phase, that means that I had 49 (3 x 3 x 7) communications to send out over

Author: it was referencing 3 communications at each of the 3 stages across the 7 lessons, but I will just delete it

```suggestion
beta phase, that means that I had 49 communications to send out over
```

the beta phase period. 

During this last reorganisation of the beta phase schedule, all lessons will
enter the beta phase stages at the same time. This means all communications
will be synchronous so core team time can be dedicated to maintenance and

> addressing maintaing and instructor questions. 

Author: ```suggestion
addressing Maintainer and Instructor questions. 
```
